and he's finished connecting all of the
tubing and now they're all filled with
water
we're not pumping any heat through
anything yet though because it's better
to pour the underlayment when there's no
motion in the tubes later on though of
course we will apply a little bit of
heat to help with the cure outside
they're mixing it up in the truck
Jason Muller and jon jorgenson are
taking care of that commissioner we have
a mixer here we mix it up in the mixer
and I have a holding hopper down below
that has the pump so I can always be
mixing one batch by one pumping so we
never have to shut up and inside we have
Dan milky Marc Topol and Ken Jorgenson
helping to pour spread and finish all it
takes us a little bit of primer applied
to the floor to help the material bond
and they're off and running the height
that we're gonna do here is inch and a
half the sleeper's here again are all
inch and a half so we're just gonna
match the top of the sleepers and we can
pour deeper if need be
now the heating tubes will expand and
contract as they heat up and cool off
and this mix is specially formulated to
resist cracking during that process if
you'd like to know a little bit more
about eco-friendly materials this one is
made with recycled fly ash and it's
GREENGUARD certified for low emissions
in this particular application here when
the products coming out we're going
slower we're going between all these
sleepers here now if the sleepers
weren't here and we were gonna do the
whole wide open floor they can speed it
up a little bit the main goal here is to
provide a thermal mass it's gonna help
spread the heat more evenly across the
floor and of course hold the heat a
little bit longer kind of like eating up
a stone but it's also going to help
muffle the noise between floors and help
keep fire from spreading as it is non
combustible typically the drying time on
this as an eighth of an inch per day to
cure out so here we're an inch and a
half so you're gonna be you know 14 days
the sleepers give the guys a pretty good
idea of how high they want the pour to
end up and so that's how I can pours it
and then Marc comes along right behind
and fine-tunes it with these knobby
bottom shoes that he's wearing he can
glide right along without stirring it
all up that's just to keep me from
leaving footprints on the floor as I'm
floating it and then I use a piece of
red wood cut
one six footer and one three footer and
we just put some nails and some closet
poll to it with some room braces on it
that's about all I used the finishing is
in the very best of hands Mark's been
doing this basically since the product
was first introduced
so he's been at it longer than anyone
else in the whole country doesn't
necessarily have to be that smooth
finish I just try to make sure it's nice
and flat and you stand back and look at
it you can kind of see if we've achieved
out or not they started on the second
floor they moved down to the first floor
give them about three hours on the house
this size and those tubes will be
totally embedded